[RLlib; offline RL; docs] Docs do-over (new API stack): Offline RL. (#48818)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/rllib/rllib-offline.rst

Working With Offline Data
=========================

Getting Started
---------------

> RLlib's offline RL API enables you to work with experiences read from offline storage (for example, disk, cloud storage,
> streaming systems, Hadoop Distributed File System/HDFS). For example, you might want to read experiences saved from previous training runs, collected
> from experts, or gathered from policies deployed in `web applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.00260>`__. You can 
> also log new agent experiences produced during online training for future use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RLlib's offline RL API enables you to work with experiences read from offline storage, such as files on disk, cloud storage, streaming systems, or Hadoop Distributed File System/HDFS. For example, you might want to read experiences saved from previous training runs, collected
from experts, or gathered from policies deployed in `web applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.00260>`__. You can 
also log new agent experiences produced during online training for future use.
```

RLlib represents trajectory sequences (for example, ``(s, a, r, s', ...)`` tuples) with :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode`

> objects (multi-agent offline training is currently not supported). Using this episode format 
> allows for efficient encoding and compression of experiences, rewriting trajectories, and user-friendly data access through getter methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
objects (multi-agent offline training is currently not supported). This episode format 
allows for efficient encoding and compression of experiences, rewriting trajectories, and user-friendly data access through getter methods.
```

During online training, RLlib uses :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_env_runner.SingleAgentEnvRunner` actors to generate episodes of experiences 
in parallel using the current policy. However, RLlib uses this same episode format for reading experiences from and writing experiences to offline storage (see :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_env_runner.OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner`).

> You can store experiences either directly in RLlib's episode format or in table (columns) 
> format. You should use the episode format when 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can store experiences either directly in RLlib's episode format or in tabular format (column data). You should use episodes when 
```

#. You need experiences grouped by their trajectory and ordered in time (for example, to train stateful modules).
#. You want to use recorded experiences exclusively within RLlib.

Contrary, you should prefer the table (columns) format, if

#. You need to read the data easily with other data tools or ML libraries.

> #. You don't need full (usually complete) trajectories in training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. note:: RLlib's new API stack incorporates principles that support standalone applications. Consequently, the 

>     :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` class is available for use independently of RLlib. To enable faster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` class is usable outside of an RLlib context. To enable faster 
```

>     access through external data tools (for example, for data transformations), it's recommended to use the table record format in these scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    access through external data tools (for example, for data transformations), it's recommended to use the table record format.
```

Most importantly, RLlib's offline RL API builds on top of :ref:`Ray Data <data>` and therefore features in general all read and 
write methods supported by Ray Data (for example :py:class:`~ray.data.read_parquet`, :py:class:`~ray.data.read_json`, etc.) with
:py:class:`~ray.data.read_parquet` and :py:class:`~ray.data.Dataset.write_parquet` being the default read and write methods. A core design principle 
of the API is to apply as many data transformations as possible on-the-fly prior to engaging the learner, allowing the latter to focus exclusively on model updates. 

.. hint:: During the transition phase from old- to new API stack you can use the new offline RL API also with your 
    :py:class:`~ray.rllib.policy.sample_batch.SampleBatch` data recorded with the old API stack. To enable this feature set 

>     ``input_read_sample_batches=True``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``config.offline_data(input_read_sample_batches=True)``.
```

Example: Training an Expert Policy
----------------------------------
In this example you train a PPO agent on the ``CartPole-v1`` environment until it reaches an episode mean return of ``450.0``. You checkpoint 

> this agent and later use its policy to record expert data to local disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this agent and then use its policy to record expert data to local disk.
```

the expert policy uses *mean-std filtering* for observations, it learns a strategy based on the filtered observations, where the filter itself is highly dependent on the experiences collected during training. When deploying this expert 
policy, it's essential to use the exact same filter during evaluation to avoid performance degradation. Similarly, a policy trained through behavior cloning may also require a *mean-std filter* for observations to accurately replicate the
behavior of the expert policy.

Scaling I/O Throughput
----------------------

Just as online training can be scaled, offline recording I/O throughput can also be increased by configuring the number of RLlib env-runners. Use the ``num_env_runners`` setting to scale recording during training or ``evaluation_num_env_runners``
for scaling during evaluation-only recording. Each worker operates independently, writing experiences in parallel, enabling linear scaling of I/O throughput for write operations. Within each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_env_runner.OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner`, episodes 

> are sampled (environments are usually vectorized) and serialized before being written to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are sampled and serialized before being written to disk.
```

                "concurrency": 2,
                "num_cpus": 1,
            },
            # When iterating over the data, prefetch two batches
            # to improve the data pipeline. Don't shuffle the
            # buffer (the data is too small).
            iter_batches_kwargs={
                "prefetch_batches": 2,
                "local_shuffle_buffer_size": None,
            },
            # You must set this for single-learner setups.
            dataset_num_iters_per_learner=1,
        )
        .evaluation(
            # Run evaluation to see how well the learned policy
            # performs. Run every 3rd training iteration an evaluation.
            evaluation_interval=3,
            # Use a single `EnvRunner` for evaluation.
            evaluation_num_env_runners=1,
            # In each evaluation rollout, collect 5 episodes of data.
            evaluation_duration=5,
            # Evaluate the policy parallel to training.
            evaluation_parallel_to_training=True,
        )
    )

    # Set the stopping metric to be the evaluation episode return mean.
    metric = f"{EVALUATION_RESULTS}/{ENV_RUNNER_RESULTS}/{EPISODE_RETURN_MEAN}"

>     # Configure the Ray Tune.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Configure Ray Tune.
```

            # Clear all episode data buffers.
            eps_obs.clear()
            eps_actions.clear()
            eps_rewards.clear()
            eps_extra_model_outputs = defaultdict(list)

        # Write episodes to disk when the episode buffer holds 50 episodes.
        if len(episodes) > 49:
            # Generate a Ray dataset from episodes.
            episodes_ds = data.from_items(episodes)
            # Write the Parquet data and compress it.
            episodes_ds.write_parquet(
                f"/tmp/test_converting/file-{i}".zfill(6),
                compression="gzip",
            )
            # Delete the dataset in memory and clear the episode buffer.
            del episodes_ds
            episodes.clear()

    # If we are finished and have unwritten episodes, write them now.
    if len(episodes) > 0:
        episodes_ds = data.from_items(episodes)
        episodes_ds.write_parquet(
            f"/tmp/test_converting/file-{i}".zfill(6),
            compression="gzip",
        )
        del episodes_ds
        episodes.clear()

Using Old API Stack ``SampleBatch`` Recordings
----------------------------------------------

> If you have expert data previously recorded using RLlib's older API stack, it can be seamlessly utilized in the new Offline RL API by setting ``input_read_sample_batches=True``. Alternatively, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have expert data previously recorded using RLlib's old API stack, it can be seamlessly utilized in the new stack's Offline RL API by setting ``input_read_sample_batches=True``. Alternatively, 
```

    optimized for streaming data, which typically exhibits stable throughput and resource usage, except in cases of imbalances between upstream and downstream tasks. As a rule of thumb, consider using autoscaling only under the following conditions: (1) throughput is expected to be highly variable, (2) Cluster resources 
    are subject to fluctuations (for example, in shared or dynamic environments), and/or (3) workload characteristics are highly unpredictable.

Allocated Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Other than the number of post-processing actors you can tune performance on the **Post-Processing (PreLearner)** layer through defining resources to be allocated to each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_prelearner.OffLinePreLearner` in the actor pool. Such resources can be defined either through ``num_cpus`` and ``num_gpus``
or in the ``ray_remote_args``. 

.. note:: Typically, increasing the number of CPUs is sufficient for performance tuning in the post-processing stage of your pipeline. GPUs are only needed in specialized cases, such as in customized pipelines. For example, RLlib’s :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.marwil.marwil.MARWIL` implementation uses the 

>     :py:class:`~ray.rllib.connectors.learner.general_advantage_estimation.GeneralAdvantageEstimation` connector in its :py:class:`~ray.rllib.connectors.connector_pipeline_v2.ConnectorPipelineV2` to apply `General Advantage Estimation <https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.02438>`_ on experience batches. In these calculations the value model of the algorithm's 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :py:class:`~ray.rllib.connectors.learner.general_advantage_estimation.GeneralAdvantageEstimation` connector in its :py:class:`~ray.rllib.connectors.connector_pipeline_v2.ConnectorPipelineV2` to apply `General Advantage Estimation <https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.02438>`_ on experience batches. In these calculations, the value model of the algorithm's 
```

    :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.RLModule` is applied, which you can accelerate by running on a GPU.

> As an example, to provide each of your ``4`` :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_prelearner.OfflinePreLearner` in the **Post-Processing (PreLearner)** ``2`` cpus you could use the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, to provide each of your ``4`` :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_prelearner.OfflinePreLearner` in the **Post-Processing (PreLearner)** ``2`` CPUs you can use the following syntax:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config import AlgorithmConfig

    AlgorithmConfig()
    .offline_data(
        map_batches_kwargs={
            "concurrency": 4,
            "num_cpus": 2,
        },
    )

.. warning:: Don't override the ``batch_size`` in RLlib's ``map_batches_kwargs``. This usually leads to high performance degradations. Note, this ``batch_size`` differs from the `train_batch_size_per_learner`: the former specifies the batch size in transformations of

>     the streaming pipeline, while the latter defines the batch size used for training within each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the streaming pipeline, while the latter defines the batch size used for training within each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` (the batch size of the actual model forward- and backward passes performed for training).
```

data row. All incoming data is converted into :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` instances - if not already in this format - and stored in an episode replay buffer, which precisely manages the sampling of `train_batch_size_per_learner` for training.

.. image:: images/offline/docs_rllib_offline_prelearner.svg
    :alt: The OfflinePreLearner converts and buffers episodes before sampling the batches used in learning.
    :width: 500
    :align: left

Achieving an optimal balance between data ingestion efficiency and sampling variation in your streaming pipeline is crucial. Consider the following example: suppose each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` has a length of ``100`` timesteps, and your `train_batch_size_per_learner` is configured to be ``1000``. 
Each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.utils.replay_buffers.episode_replay_buffer.EpisodeReplayBuffer` instance is set with a capacity of ``1000``:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config import AlgorithmConfig

>     AlgorithmConfig()

Reviewer: nit: Let's format these examples with the standard config format and create a `config` variable:

```
config = (
    AlgorithmConfig
    .training(
        ...
    )
    .offline_data(
        ...
    )
)
```

    .training(
        # Train on a batch of 1000 timesteps each iteration.
        train_batch_size_per_learner=1000,
    )
    .offline_data(
        # Read in RLlib's new stack `SingleAgentEpisode` data.
        input_read_episodes=True
        # Define an input read batch size of 10 episodes.
        input_read_batch_size=10,
        # Set the replay buffer in the `OfflinePrelearner`
        # to 1,000 timesteps.
        prelearner_buffer_kwargs={
            "capacity": 1000,
        },
    )

If you configure `input_read_batch_size` to ``10`` as shown in the code, each of the ``10`` :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` fit into the buffer, enabling sampling across a wide variety of timesteps from multiple episodes. This results in high sampling variation. Now, consider the case where the buffer
capacity is reduced to ``500``: 

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config import AlgorithmConfig

>     AlgorithmConfig()

Reviewer: nit: same here: change format to above suggestion and add `config` variable.

results in lower sampling variation because many timesteps are repeatedly sampled, reducing diversity across training batches. These examples highlight the importance of tuning these parameters to balance data ingestion and sampling diversity in your offline streaming pipeline effectively.

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config import AlgorithmConfig

    AlgorithmConfig()
    .training(
        # Train on a batch of 4000 timesteps each iteration.
        train_batch_size_per_learner=4000,
    )
    .offline_data(
        # Read in RLlib's new stack `SingleAgentEpisode` data.
        input_read_episodes=True
        # Define an input read batch size of 10 episodes.
        input_read_batch_size=10,
        # Set the replay buffer in the `OfflinePrelearner`
        # to 1,000 timesteps.
        prelearner_buffer_kwargs={
            "capacity": 500,
        },
    )

> .. tip:: To choose an adequate `input_read_batch_size` take a look at the length of your recorded episodes. In some cases each single episode is long enough to fullfill the `train_batch_size_per_learner` and you could choose a `input_read_batch_size` of ``1``. Most times it's not and you need to consider how many episodes should be buffered to balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip:: To choose an adequate `input_read_batch_size` take a look at the length of your recorded episodes. In some cases each single episode is long enough to fulfill the `train_batch_size_per_learner` and you could choose a `input_read_batch_size` of ``1``. Most times it's not and you need to consider how many episodes should be buffered to balance
```

    the amount of data digested from read input and the variation of data sampled from the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.utils.replay_buffers.episode_replay_buffer.EpisodeReplayBuffer` instances in the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_prelearner.OfflinePreLearner`.

How to Tune Updating (Learner)
******************************

**Updating (Learner)**  is the final downstream task in RLlib's Offline RL pipeline, and its consumption speed determines the overall throughput of the data pipeline. If the learning process is slow, it can cause backpressure in upstream layers, potentially leading to object spilling or Out-Of-Memory (OOM) errors. Therefore, it's essential to fine-tune this
layer in coordination with the upstream components. Several parameters can be adjusted to optimize the learning speed in your Offline algorithm:

- Actor Pool Size
- Allocated Resources
- Scheduling Strategy
- Batch Sizing
- Batch Prefetching
- Learner Iterations.

.. _actor-pool-size:

Actor Pool Size
***************

> RLlib supports scaling :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances through the parameter `num_learners`. When this vcalue exceeds ``1``, scaling is implemented internally using a :py:class:`~ray.train._internals.backend_executor_BackendExecutor`. This executor spawns your specified 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RLlib supports scaling :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances through the parameter `num_learners`. When this value is ``0``, RLlib uses a Learner instance in the local process, whereas for values ``>0``, RLlib scales out using a :py:class:`~ray.train._internals.backend_executor_BackendExecutor`. This executor spawns your specified 
```

number of :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances, manages distributed training and aggregates intermediate results across :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` actors. :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` scaling increases training throughput and you should only apply it, if the upstream components in your 
Offline Data pipeline can supply data at a rate sufficient to match the increased training capacity. RLlib's Offline API offers powerful scalability at its final layer by utilizing :py:class:`~ray.data.Dataset.streaming_split`. This functionality divides the data stream into multiple substreams, which are then processed by individual 
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances, enabling efficient parallel consumption and enhancing overall throughput.

For example to set the number of learners to ``4``, you use the following syntax:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config import AlgorithmConfig

>     AlgorithmConfig()
>     .learners(
>         num_learners=4,
>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    config = (
        AlgorithmConfig()
        .learners(num_learners=4)
    )
```

.. tip::For performance optimization you should choose between using a single local :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` or multiple remote ones :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner`. In case your dataset is small, use scaling of :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances with caution as it produces significant 
    overhead and splits the data pipeline into multiple streams.

Allocated Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Just as with the Post-Processing (Pre-Learner) layer, allocating additional resources can help address slow training processes. In this case, the primary resource to leverage is the GPU, as training involves forward and backward passes through the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule`, which GPUs can accelerate significantly. If your training is 

> already utilize GPUs and performance remains an issue, consider scaling up by either adding more GPUs to each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` to increase GPU memory and computational capacity, or by adding additional :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` workers to further distribute the workload. Additionally, ensure that data 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
already utilizes GPUs and performance still remains an issue, consider scaling up by either adding more GPUs to each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` to increase GPU memory and computational capacity (set `config.learners(num_gpus_per_learner=...)`), or by adding additional :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` workers to further distribute the workload (by setting `config.learners(num_learners=...)`). Additionally, ensure that data 
```

throughput and upstream components are optimized to keep the learners fully utilized, as insufficient upstream capacity can bottleneck the training process.

.. warning::Currently, you can't set both `num_gpus_per_learner` and `num_cpus_per_learner` due to placement group (PG) fragmentation in Ray.

To provide your learners with more compute use ``num_gpus_per_learner`` or ``num_cpus_per_learner`` as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config import AlgorithmConfig

>     AlgorithmConfig()
>     .learners(
>         num_learners=4,
>         num_gpus_per_learner=2,
>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    config = (
        AlgorithmConfig()
        .learners(num_learners=4, num_gpus_per_learner=2)
    )
```

> .. tip::If you experience backpressure in the **Post-Processing (Pre-Learner)** stage of your pipeline, consider enabling GPU training before scaling up your :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip::If you experience backpressure in the **Post-Processing (Pre-Learner)** stage of your pipeline, consider enabling GPU training before scaling up the number of your :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.learner.learner.Learner` instances.
```

        rl_module_specs={
            "default_policy": RLModuleSpec(
                model_config=DefaultModelConfig(
                    conv_filters=[[16, 4, 2], [32, 4, 2], [64, 4, 2], [128, 4, 2]],
                    conv_activation="relu",
                ),
                inference_only=False,
                module_class=BCTorchRLModule,
                catalog_class=BCCatalog,
                action_space = gym.spaces.Discrete(2),
                observation_space=gym.spaces.Box(0, 255, (32, 32, 3), np.float32),
            ),
        },
    )

    # Construct your `OfflineData` class instance.
    offline_data = ImageOfflineData(config)

    # Check, how the data is transformed.
    batch = offline_data.data.take_batch(128)

    # Construct your `OfflinePreLearner`.
    offline_prelearner = ImageOfflinePreLearner(
        config=config,
        learner=None,
        spaces=(
            config.observation_space,
            config.action_space,
        ),
        module_spec=module_spec,
    )

    # Transform the raw data to `MultiAgentBatch` data.
    batch = offline_prelearner(batch)

    # Show the transformed batch.
    print(f"Batch: {batch}")

> In the code example provided, you define a custom :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_data.OfflineData` class to handle the reading and preprocessing of image data, converting it from a binary encoding format into `numpy` arrays. Additionally, you implement a custom :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_prelearner.OfflinePreLearner` to process this data further, transforming it into a learner-ready :py:class:`~ray.rllib.policy.sample_batch.MultiAgentBatch` format. This demonstrates how the entire Offline Data Pipeline can be customized with your own logic. 

Reviewer: Putting the above code into its own examples script allows us to describe the process some more in the header docstring of the example script. Then, it would be enough to just say here:

```
See here for a detailed example of how to write your own image preprocessing pipeline ...
```

Author: Done

.. tip:: Consider this approach carefully: in many cases, fully transforming your data into a suitable format before engaging RLlib's offline RL API can be more efficient. For instance, in the example above, you could preprocess the entire image dataset into `numpy` arrays beforehand and utilize RLlib's default :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_data.OfflineData` class for subsequent steps. 

Monitoring
----------
To effectively monitor your offline data pipeline, leverage :ref:`Ray Data's built-in monitoring capacities <monitoring-your-workload>`. Focus on ensuring that all stages of your offline data streaming pipeline are actively processing data. Additionally, keep an eye on the Learner instance, particularly the `learner_update_timer`, which should maintain low values - around `0.02` for small models - to indicate efficient data processing and model updates.

> .. note:: RLlib doesn't include :ref:`Ray Data <data>`  metrics in its results or display them in `Tensorboard` through :ref:`Ray Tune <tune-main>`'s :py:class:`~ray.tune.logger.tensorboardx.TBXLoggerCallback`. It's strongly recommended to enable the :ref:`Ray Dashboard <observability-getting-started>`, accessible at `127.0.0.1:8265`, for comprehensive monitoring and insights.

Reviewer: Interesting. Is there any way to funnel these metrics from data into RLlib's metrics loggers somehow? Not top-prio at this point, but would be super nice to have.

Author: I doubt that it will be smooth - instead I guess it will produce much overhead. In addition the metrics are  nested such that they can be optimally shown in the Ray Dashboard. 

I am also unsure at this point if these metrics should be in our TensorBoard as they are more system performance metrics than RL metrics. In larger companies these metrics also get checked by System Administrators/Hardware Engineers while the RL metrics get checked by RL engineers. But I am open for discussion.

Input API
---------

> You can configure experience input for an agent using the following options:

Reviewer: nit: let's write 1-2 more sentences here on what exactly gets configured in this method and why?

* Use this method for configuring from where and how an offline RL algorithm reads its data input.

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: We should not repeat the docstring of this method here. Can we just reference the `AlgorithmConfig.offline_data` method somehow and enhance the existing comments/docstrings by what you wrote here below (if that's not the case yet)?

Author: We can and we should. It makes it easier to maintain. So, what should we show here?

        # RLlib's previous `SampleBatch` type format. In this case, a single
        # data row may contain multiple timesteps and the buffer serves two
        # purposes: (a) to store intermediate data in memory, and (b) to ensure
        # that exactly `train_batch_size_per_learner` experiences are sampled
        # per batch. The default is RLlib's `EpisodeReplayBuffer`.
        prelearner_buffer_class: Optional[Type],
        # Optional keyword arguments for intializing the
        # `EpisodeReplayBuffer`. In most cases this is simply the `capacity`
        # for the default buffer used (`EpisodeReplayBuffer`), but it may
        # differ if the `prelearner_buffer_class` uses a custom buffer.
        prelearner_buffer_kwargs: Optional[Dict],
        # Number of updates to run in each learner
        # during a single training iteration. If None, each learner runs a
        # complete epoch over its data block (the dataset is partitioned into
        # at least as many blocks as there are learners). The default is `None`.
        # This must be set to `1`, if a single (local) learner is used.
        dataset_num_iters_per_learner: Optional[int],
    )

Output API
----------

> You can configure experience output for an agent using the following options:

Reviewer: nit: let's write 1-2 more sentences here on what exactly gets configured in this method and why?
* Use this method for configuring how any algorithm in RLlib (online- or offline) writes its collected experiences to a data storage.

.. code-block:: python

>     def offline_data(

Reviewer: Ah, I see. You wanted to split this into in- and output. Ok.

Hmm, if it's that distinguishable, maybe we should separate this into 2 methods?

Ok, let's discuss offline, before we make a move here.

Working With Offline Data
=========================

Getting Started
---------------

RLlib's offline RL API enables you to work with experiences read from offline storage (for example, disk, cloud storage,
streaming systems, Hadoop Distributed File System/HDFS). For example, you might want to read experiences saved from previous training runs, collected
from experts, or gathered from policies deployed in `web applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.00260>`__. You can 
also log new agent experiences produced during online training for future use.

RLlib represents trajectory sequences (for example, ``(s, a, r, s', ...)`` tuples) with :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode`
objects (multi-agent offline training is currently not supported). Using this episode format 

> enables efficient encoding and compression of experiences, rewriting trajectories, and user-friendly data access through getters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows for efficient encoding and compression of experiences, rewriting trajectories, and user-friendly data access through getters.
```

During online training, RLlib uses :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_env_runner.SingleAgentEnvRunner` actors to generate episodes of experiences 

> in parallel using the current policy. RLlib can also uses this same episode format for reading and writing experiences to offline storage. For offline 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in parallel using the current policy. However, RLlib uses this same episode format for reading experiences from and writing experiences to offline storage. For offline 
```

> writing RLlib uses the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_env_runner.OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner` that samples episodes and writes them to offline 
> storage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can store experiences either directly in RLlib's episode format or in table (columns) 
format. You should use the episode format when 

#. You need experiences grouped by their trajectory and ordered in time (for example, to train stateful modules).
#. You want to use recorded experiences exclusively within RLlib.

Contrary, you should prefer the table (columns) format, if

#. You need to read the data easily with other data tools or ML libraries.
#. You don't need full (usually complete) trajectories in training.

> .. note:: RLlib's redesigned API stack incorporates principles that support standalone applications. Consequently, the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: RLlib's new API stack incorporates principles that support standalone applications. Consequently, the 
```

    :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` class is available for use independently of RLlib. To enable faster 
    access through external data tools (for example, for data transformations), it's recommended to use the table record format in these scenarios.

Most importantly, RLlib's offline RL API builds on top of :ref:`Ray Data <data>` and therefore features in general all read and 
write methods supported by Ray Data (for example :py:class:`~ray.data.read_parquet`, :py:class:`~ray.data.read_json`, etc.) with
:py:class:`~ray.data.read_parquet` and :py:class:`~ray.data.Dataset.write_parquet` being the default read and write methods. A core design principle 

> of the API is to apply as many data transformations as possible on-the-fly to the learner, allowing the learner to focus exclusively on model updates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the API is to apply as many data transformations as possible on-the-fly prior to engaging the learner, allowing the latter to focus exclusively on model updates. 
```

> .. hint:: During the transition phase from old to new API stack you can use the new offline RL API also with your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. hint:: During the transition phase from old- to new API stack you can use the new offline RL API also with your 
```

        # the one with which the expert policy was trained, otherwise
        # the module state can't be loaded.
        .rl_module(
            model_config=DefaultModelConfig(
                fcnet_hiddens=[32],
                fcnet_activation="linear",
                # Share encoder layers between value network
                # and policy.
                vf_share_layers=True,
            ),
        )
        # Define the output path and format. In this example you
        # want to store data directly in RLlib's episode objects.
        # Each Parquet file should hold no more than 25 episodes. 
        .offline_data(
            output=data_path,
            output_write_episodes=True,
            output_max_rows_per_file=25,
        )
    )

    # Build the algorithm.
    algo = config.build()
    # Load now the PPO-trained `RLModule` to use in recording.
    algo.restore_from_path(
        best_checkpoint,
        # Load only the `RLModule` component here.
        component=COMPONENT_RL_MODULE,
    )

    # Run 10 evaluation iterations and record the data.
    for i in range(10):
        print(f"Iteration {i + 1}")

>         res_eval = algo.evaluate()
>         print(res_eval)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        eval_results = algo.evaluate()
        print(eval_results)
```

    # defining `output_max_rows_per_file`. Otherwise,
    # remaining episodes in the `EnvRunner`s buffer isn't written to disk.
    algo.stop()

.. note:: The stored episode data is formatted as ``binary``. Each episode is converted into its dictionary representation and serialized using ``msgpack-numpy``, 
    ensuring version compatibility.

RLlib's  recording process is efficient because it utilizes multiple :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_env_runner.OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner` instances during 
evaluation, enabling parallel data writing. You can explore the folder to review the stored Parquet data:

.. code-block:: text

    $ ls -la /tmp/docs_rllib_offline_recording/cartpole-v1

    drwxr-xr-x. 22 user user 440 21. Nov 17:23 .
    drwxr-xr-x.  3 user user  60 21. Nov 17:23 ..
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 21. Nov 17:23 run-000001-00004
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 21. Nov 17:23 run-000001-00009
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 21. Nov 17:23 run-000001-00012
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 21. Nov 17:23 run-000001-00016
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 21. Nov 17:23 run-000002-00004
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 21. Nov 17:23 run-000002-00007

> .. hint:: RLlib stores records under a folder named by the RL environment. Therein, you see for each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_env_runner.OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner` 
>     and write operation one folder of Parquet files. The write operation count is given in the second numbering. For example: above, env-runner 1 has sampled 25 episodes at 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. hint:: RLlib stores records under a folder named by the RL environment. Therein, you see one folder of Parquet files for each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_env_runner.OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner` 
    and write operation. The write operation count is given in the second numbering. For example: above, env-runner 1 has sampled 16 episodes at 
```

Reviewer: Is the 25 correct here? The filename is 00016, no?

can be highly beneficial. Combining behavior cloning with subsequent fine-tuning using a reinforcement learning algorithm can substantially 
reduce training time, resource consumption, and associated costs.

Using External Expert Experiences
---------------------------------
Your expert data is often already available, either recorded from an operational system or directly provided by human experts. Typically, 
this data is stored in a tabular (columnar) format. RLlib's new Offline RL API simplifies the use of such data by allowing direct ingestion 
through a specified schema that organizes the expert data. The API default schema for reading data is provided in
:py:data:`~ray.rllib.offline.offline_prelearner.SCHEMA`.

Lets consider a simple example in which your expert data is stored with the schema: ``(o_t, a_t, r_t, o_tp1, d_t, i_t, logprobs_t)``. In this case 
you provide this schema as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.bc import BCConfig
    from ray.rllib.core.columns import Columns

    config = (
        BCConfig()
        ...
        .offline_data(
            input_=[<input_path>],

>             # Provide the schema of your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # Provide the schema of your data (map to column names known to RLlib).
```

                Columns.INFOS: "i_t",
                "done": "d_t",
            },
        )
    )
        
.. note:: Internally, the legacy ``gym``'s ``done`` signals are mapped to ``gymnasium``'s ``terminated`` signals, with ``truncated`` values defaulting to 
    ``False``. RLlib's :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` structures align with ``gymnasium``, adhering to the updated environment API standards in reinforcement learning.

Converting Tabular Data to RLlib's Episode Format
-------------------------------------------------
While the tabular format is widely compatible and seamlessly integrates with RLlib's new Offline RL API, there are cases where you may prefer to use RLlib's native episode format. 
As briefly mentioned earlier, such scenarios typically arise when full expert trajectories are required.

.. note::
    RLlib processes tabular data in batches, converting each row into a *single-step episode*. This approach is primarily for procedural simplicity, as data can't
    generally be assumed to arrive in time-ordered rows grouped by episodes, though this may occasionally be the case (however knowledge of such a structure resides  

>     with the user as RLlib can't easily infer it automatically). While it's possible to concatenate :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode`
>     chunks, this can't be done with fragmented chunks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    with the user as RLlib can't easily infer it automatically). While it's possible to concatenate consecutive :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode`
    chunks, this can't be done with chunks arriving in some scrambled order.
```

If you require full trajectories you can transform your tabular data into :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode` objects and store these in Parquet format. The next example shows 
how to do this. 

> First, you store experiences of the preceding trained expert policy in tabular format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you store experiences of the preceding trained expert policy in tabular format (note the `output_write_episodes=False` setting below to activate tabular data output):
```

            batch_mode="complete_episodes",
        )
        # Set up 5 evaluation `EnvRunners` for recording.
        # Sample 50 episodes in each evaluation rollout.
        .evaluation(
            evaluation_num_env_runners=5,
            evaluation_duration=50,
        )
        # Use the checkpointed expert policy from the preceding PPO training.
        # Note, we have to use the same `model_config` as
        # the one with which the expert policy was trained, otherwise
        # the module state can't be loaded.
        .rl_module(
            model_config=DefaultModelConfig(
                fcnet_hiddens=[32],
                fcnet_activation="linear",
                # Share encoder layers between value network
                # and policy.
                vf_share_layers=True,
            ),
        )
        # Define the output path and format. In this example you
        # want to store data directly in RLlib's episode objects. 
        .offline_data(
            output=tabular_data_path,
            # You want to store for this example tabular data.
            output_write_episodes=False,
        )
    )

    # Build the algorithm.
    algo = config.build()

>     # Load now the PPO-trained `RLModule` to use in recording.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Load the PPO-trained `RLModule` to use in recording.
```

    `SingleAgentEpisode` class is available for use independently of RLlib. To enable faster access through external data tools 
    (e.g., for data transformations), it is recommended to use the table record format in these scenarios.

Most importantly, RLlib's offline RL API builds on top of :ref:`Ray Data <data>` and therefore features in general all read and 
write methods supported by Ray Data (e.g. ``read_parquet``, ``read_json``, etc.) with ``read/write_parquet`` being the default 
read and write methods. A core design principle of the API is to apply as many data transformations as possible on-the-fly to
the learner, allowing the learner to focus exclusively on model updates. 

.. note:: During the transition phase from old to new API stack you can use the new offline RL API also with your 
    `SampleBatch <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/offline/offline_single_agent_env_runner.py>`__ data recorded 
    with the old API stack. To enable this feature set ``input_read_sample_batches=True``.

Example: Training an expert policy.
--------------------------------------------

> In this example you train an PPO agent to play ``CartPole-v1`` until it collects an episode mean reward of ``450.0``. You checkpoint 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example you train a PPO agent on the ``CartPole-v1`` environment until it reaches an episode mean return of ``450.0``. You checkpoint 
```

this agent and later use its policy to record expert data to local disk.

.. testsetup:: 
    
    # Define a shared variable to store the path to the
    # best checkpoint.
    best_checkpoint = None

    # Define a shared variable to store the path to the
    # recorded data.
    data_path = None

    # Define another shared variable to store the path to
    # the tabular recording data.
    tabular_data_path = None

> .. testcode::

Reviewer: remove this line?

Author: Nope, the `testsetup` is hidden for users. We define there only some global variables we can use across all examples :)

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig
    from ray.rllib.core.rl_module.default_model_config import DefaultModelConfig
    from ray.rllib.utils.metrics import (
        ENV_RUNNER_RESULTS,
        EVALUATION_RESULTS,
        EPISODE_RETURN_MEAN,
    )
    from ray import train, tune

    # Configure the PPO algorithm.
    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        .environment("CartPole-v1")

>         # Enable the new API stack.
>         .api_stack(
>             enable_rl_module_and_learner=True,
>             enable_env_runner_and_connector_v2=True,
>         )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        .training(
            lr=0.0003,
            # Run 6 SGD minibatch iterations on a batch.
            num_epochs=6,
            # Weigh the value function loss smaller than 
            # the policy loss.
            vf_loss_coeff=0.01,
        )
        .rl_module(
            model_config=DefaultModelConfig(
                fcnet_hiddens=[32],
                fcnet_activation="linear",
                # Share encoder layers between value network
                # and policy.
                vf_share_layers=True,
            ),
        )
    )

    # Define the metric to use for stopping.
    metric = f"{EVALUATION_RESULTS}/{ENV_RUNNER_RESULTS}/{EPISODE_RETURN_MEAN}"

    # Define the Tuner.
    tuner = tune.Tuner(
        "PPO",
        param_space=config,
        run_config=train.RunConfig(
            stop={
                metric: 450.0,
            },
            name="docs_rllib_offline_pretrain_ppo",
            verbose=2,
            checkpoint_config=train.CheckpointConfig(
                checkpoint_frequency=1,
                checkpoint_at_end=True,
            ),
        ),
    )

>     analysis = tuner.fit()

Reviewer: rename to `results` (name used across RLlib).

>     best_checkpoint = (

Reviewer: nit: add some comments here about what we are going to do with this checkpoint next ...

Author: Yeah! Good point!

        analysis
        .get_best_result(
            metric=metric,
            mode="max"
        )
        .checkpoint.path
    )

> Example: Record expert data to local disk

Reviewer: Maybe add a 1-2 sentences here between the paragraphs about that we are going to do next with the generated checkpoint.

5 ``OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner`` s to collect in each rollout 50 complete episodes. In this example you store experiences directly in RLlib's 
``SingleAgentEpisode`` objects with no more than 25 episode objects per Parquet file. Altogether you run 10 evaluation runs, which should
result in 500 recorded episodes from the expert policy. You will use these data in the next example to train via Offline RL a new policy 
that should reach a return of 450.0 when playing ``CartPole-v1``.

.. testcode::

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig
    from ray.rllib.core import (
        COMPONENT_LEARNER_GROUP,
        COMPONENT_LEARNER,
        COMPONENT_RL_MODULE,
        DEFAULT_MODULE_ID,
    )
    from ray.rllib.core.rl_module import RLModuleSpec
    
    # Store recording data under the following path.
    data_path = "/tmp/docs_rllib_offline_recording"

    # Configure the algorithm for recording.
    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        # The environment needs to be specified.
        .environment(
            env="CartPole-v1",
        )

>         # Make sure you use the new API stack.
>         .api_stack(
>             enable_rl_module_and_learner=True,
>             enable_env_runner_and_connector_v2=True,
>         )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Finally, it is default :)

        # Make sure to sample complete episodes because
        # you want to record RLlib's episode objects.
        .env_runners(
            batch_mode="complete_episodes",
        )
        # Set up 5 evaluation `EnvRunners` for recording.
        # Sample 50 episodes in each evaluation rollout.
        .evaluation(
            evaluation_num_env_runners=5,

>             evaluation_duration=50,

Reviewer: let's also specify the unit here, just for clarity `evaluation_duration_unit="episodes"`

Author: Alright, implemented it! Thanks for the suggestion!

        )
        # Use the checkpointed expert policy from PPO training
        # above. Note, we have to use the same `model_config` as
        # the one with which the expert policy was trained, otherwise
        # the module state cannot be loaded.
        .rl_module(
            model_config=DefaultModelConfig(
                fcnet_hiddens=[32],
                fcnet_activation="linear",
                # Share encoder layers between value network
                # and policy.
                vf_share_layers=True,
            ),
        )
        # Define the output path and format. In this example you
        # want to store data directly in RLlib's episode objects.
        # Each Parquet file should hold no more than 25 episodes. 
        .offline_data(
            output=data_path,
            output_write_episodes=True,
            output_max_rows_per_file=25,
        )
    )

    # Build the algorithm.
    algo = config.build()
    # Load now the PPO-trained `RLModule` to use in recording.
    algo.restore_from_path(

>         best_checkpoint,

Reviewer: I think you have to do this here:
```
best_checkpoint / COMPONENT_LEARNER_GROUP / COMPONENT_LEARNER / COMPONENT_RL_MODULE
```
... to make this work ...

Author: Really? It worked like this in my example locally ...

        res_eval = algo.evaluate()
        print(res_eval)

    # Stop the algorithm. Note, this is important for when
    # defining `output_max_rows_per_file`. Otherwise,
    # remaining episodes in the `EnvRunner`s buffer will not
    # be written to disk.
    algo.stop()

.. note:: The stored episode data is formatted as ``binary``. Each episode is converted into its dictionary representation and serialized using ``msgpack-numpy``, 
    ensuring version compatibility.

RLlib's  recording process is efficient because it utilizes multiple ``OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner`` instances during evaluation, enabling parallel 
data writing. You can explore the folder to review the stored Parquet data:

.. code-block:: text

    $ ls -la /tmp/docs_rllib_offline_recording/cartpole-v1

    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 18. Nov 18:05 run-000001-00006
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 18. Nov 18:05 run-000001-00011
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 18. Nov 18:05 run-000001-00016
    drwxr-xr-x.  2 user user 540 18. Nov 18:05 run-000001-00021

.. hint:: RLlib stores records under a folder named by the RL environment. Therein, you see for each ``OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner`` and write operation 

>     one folder of Parquet files. The write operation count is given in the second numbering. 

Reviewer: so this is the 6, 11, 16, 21? We should explain what this means and why exactly we get these numbers.

Author: I have described in more detailed how these numbers occur. I will also in another PR bring in some changes to the `OfflineSingleAgentEnvRunner`.

Your expert data is often already available, either recorded from an operational system or directly provided by human experts. Typically, 
this data is stored in a tabular (columnar) format. RLlib's new Offline RL API simplifies the use of such data by allowing direct ingestion 
via a specified schema that organizes the expert data. The API's default schema for reading data is provided in `offline_prelearner.SCHEMA 
<http://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/offline/offline_prelearner.py#33>`__.

Lets consider a simple example in which your expert data is stored with the schema: ``(o_t, a_t, r_t, o_tp1, d_t, i_t, logprobs_t)``. In this case 
you provide this schema as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.bc import BCConfig
    from ray.rllib.core.columns import Columns

    config = (
        BCConfig()
        ...
        .offline_data(
            input_=[<input_path>],
            # Provide the schema of your data.
            input_read_schema={
                Columns.OBS: "o_t",
                Columns.ACTIONS: "a_t",
                Columns.REWARDS: "r_t",
                Columns.NEXT_OBS: "o_tp1",
                Columns.INFOS: "i_t",

>                 "done": "d_t",

Reviewer: Use `Columns.DONES`?

Or should we even use `TERMINATEDS` here? (not sure what effects using "dones" would have on the algo loss logic).

Author: We don't have `Columns.DONES` :) I can create them.

Reviewer: Nope, that's fine! Let's leave it as-is with this comment here.

            },
        )
    )
        

> .. note:: Internally, the legacy ``gym``'s ``done`` signals are mapped to ``gymnasium``'s ``terminated`` signals, with ``truncated`` values defaulting to 

Reviewer: Ah, ok, perfect! Forget my comment above :)

    ``False``. RLlib's ``SingleAgentEpisode`` structures align with ``gymnasium``, adhering to the updated environment API standards in reinforcement learning.

Converting tabular data to RLlib's episode format
-------------------------------------------------
While the tabular format is widely compatible and seamlessly integrates with RLlib's new Offline RL API, there are cases where you may prefer to use RLlib's native episode format. 
As briefly mentioned earlier, such scenarios typically arise when full expert trajectories are required.

.. note::
    RLlib processes tabular data in batches, converting each row into a *single-step episode*. This approach is primarily for procedural simplicity, as data cannot 

>     generally be assumed to arrive in time-ordered rows grouped by episodes, though this may occasionally be the case (however knowledge of such a structure resides  

Reviewer: problem very nicely described!

    with the user as RLlib cannot easily infer it automatically). While it is possible to concatenate ``SingleAgentEpisode`` chunks, this cannot be done with fragmented chunks.

> If you require full trajectories you can transform your tabular data into ``SingleAgentEpisode`` objects and store these in Parquet format. The next example shows how to do this. 

Reviewer: In general across this rst, always use the:
```
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode`
```

notation for classes and the:

```
:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode.get_observations`
```

notation for individual class methods.

This automatically creates links into these APIs' reference pages.

Reviewer: So replace all ``SingleAgentEpisode`` with
```
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.single_agent_episode.SingleAgentEpisode`
```

etc..

Author: @sven1977 Some of these classes and their methods appear not to be in the docs.

First, you will store experiences of the above trained expert policy in tabular format:

.. testcode:: python

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig
    from ray.rllib.core import (
        COMPONENT_LEARNER_GROUP,
        COMPONENT_LEARNER,
        COMPONENT_RL_MODULE,
        DEFAULT_MODULE_ID,
    )
    from ray.rllib.core.rl_module import RLModuleSpec
    
    # Set up a path for the tabular data records.
    tabular_data_path = "tmp/docs_rllib_offline_recording_tabular"

    # Configure the algorithm for recording.
    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        # The environment needs to be specified.
        .environment(
            env="CartPole-v1",
        )

>         # Make sure you use the new API stack.
>         .api_stack(
>             enable_rl_module_and_learner=True,
>             enable_env_runner_and_connector_v2=True,
>         )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        # Sample 50 episodes in each evaluation rollout.
        .evaluation(
            evaluation_num_env_runners=5,
            evaluation_duration=50,
        )
        # Use the checkpointed expert policy from PPO training
        # above. Note, we have to use the same `model_config` as
        # the one with which the expert policy was trained, otherwise
        # the module state cannot be loaded.
        .rl_module(
            model_config=DefaultModelConfig(
                fcnet_hiddens=[32],
                fcnet_activation="linear",
                # Share encoder layers between value network
                # and policy.
                vf_share_layers=True,
            ),
        )
        # Define the output path and format. In this example you
        # want to store data directly in RLlib's episode objects. 
        .offline_data(
            output=tabular_data_path,
            # You want to store for this example tabular data.
            output_write_episodes=False,
        )
    )

    # Build the algorithm.
    algo = config.build()
    # Load now the PPO-trained `RLModule` to use in recording.
    algo.restore_from_path(

>         best_checkpoint,

Reviewer: same here, correct?

We need to specify the individual RLModule sub-path instead of this algo top-level path.

required to convert episode data into a columnar format. To confirm that the recorded data is now in columnar format, you can print its schema:

.. testcode:: python

    from ray import data
    
    # Read the tabular data into a Ray dataset.
    ds = ray.data.read_parquet(tabular_data_path)
    # Now, print its schema.
    print("Tabular data schema of expert experiences:\n")
    print(ds.schema())
    
    # Column              Type
    # ------              ----
    # eps_id              string
    # agent_id            null
    # module_id           null
    # obs                 numpy.ndarray(shape=(4,), dtype=float)
    # actions             int32
    # rewards             double
    # new_obs             numpy.ndarray(shape=(4,), dtype=float)
    # terminateds         bool
    # truncateds          bool
    # action_dist_inputs  numpy.ndarray(shape=(2,), dtype=float)
    # action_logp         float
    # weights_seq_no      int64

.. note::
    ``infos`` are not stored to disk when they are all empty.

> If your expert data is given in columnar format and you need to train on full expert trajectories you can follow the code in the following example to convert 

Reviewer: These examples are all really useful!

	...
    }

> Writing Environment Data

Reviewer: Dumb question: Are these paragraphs still needed (new API stack)?
If not (or if they only refer to old API stack stuff), let's completely remove them.

Reviewer: Same question for the above `Ray Data Integration` section.

Author: Yes they are all old API stack and will be removed by my soon. They helped me structuring the file better.
